Cycle 1
 
1. Ask the user for a number. Depending on whether the number is even or odd, print out an appropriate message to the user.
2. Create a program that asks the user for a number and then prints out a list of all the divisors of that number.
3. Read a number in decimal and convert it into different bases.
4. Print the multiplication table of a given number. (use while loop)
5. Find nth Fibonacci number using recursion.
6. Read and display a sparse matrix using dictionary
7. Create a Python dictionary representing a student's grades in different subjects (e.g., Math, Science, History). Write a function to calculate the average grade of the student across all subjects.
8. Prime Numbers in the Fibonacci Sequence
9. Visualization of Continent Areas using Bar Charts
10. Data Analysis using Pandas – Pivot Tables and Cross Tabulation

Cycle 2

11. Given a string s containing just the characters '(', ')', '{', '}', '[' and ']', determine if the input string is valid. An input string is valid if: a. Open brackets must be closed by the same type of brackets., b. Open brackets must be closed in the correct order. c. Every close bracket has a corresponding open bracket of the same type.
12. Define a tuple containing the names of different fruits. Write a Python program that prompts the user to enter a fruit name. If the entered fruit exists in the tuple, display a message confirming its presence; otherwise, display a message indicating its absence.
13. Count the number of vowels, consonants, words and question marks in a given string.

Cycle 3
 
14. Plot a graph y = f(x).
15. How to get all 2D diagonals of a 3D NumPy array?
16. Flatten a 2d numpy array into 1d array
17. NumPy – Fibonacci Series using Binet Formula
18. Inverse a matrix using NumPy
19. Calculate inner, outer, and cross products of matrices and vectors using NumPy
20. Compute the Kronecker product of two multidimensional NumPy arrays
21. Convert the matrix into a list

Cycle 4
22. Calculate the QR decomposition of matrix using numpy
23. Convert a NumPy array into a csv file
24. Calculate the average, variance and standard deviation in Python using NumPy
